hi my name is John cattlemen today I
want to talk to you about metallic heat
transfer now behind me you can see some
empty D collectors that use a method of
non metallic you transfer but they'll
save a discussion about this okay I'd
like you to look at this as a concept
example I I don't expect you to actually
use half-inch copper tubes as flow tubes
you should really use something like 3/8
inch copper - it's their creation of
course going to be a lot less expensive
you don't really need them I found a
good distance between the copper tube is
about six inches I mean I'm going to
leave that up to you but that works out
pretty good for me anyway the thing that
we really are concerned with today has
to do with the thickness of the absorber
plate
if the absorber plate is too thick it
will take too long to heat up and we'll
also take too long to transfer heat from
the absorber plate to a flow tube as you
know you know this is the absorber plate
and this is the flow tube just want to
clarify that I'm sure you know you know
okay all right that's good all right so
if it's too thick it's going to take too
long to transfer the heat so the heat
transfer rates gonna be too slow what
happens if it's too thin well well it's
gonna heat up right away but if it's too
thin the heat dissipation compared to
the heat conduction the heat dissipation
will be higher than the heat conduction
rate so we're gonna be losing more heat
than we're doing okay so we don't want
our absorber plate to be too thick or
too thin and we don't want it to be too
expensive so want to find a balance
between all these things and that's what
this experiment is about and we're all
set up for our heat transfer experiment
what we want to do is measure the heat
transfer rate in a thin sheet of
aluminum as opposed to a thick sheet of
aluminum now the difference in
thicknesses is not that much but there
is a difference the thin sheet of
aluminum is point zero one four inches
and the thick sheet of aluminum is point
zero two inches okay so what we have
here is we have four temperature probes
two temperature probes are two inches
from the heat source and the other two
temperature probes are 4 inches from the
heat source so this monitor on the Left
will be monitoring the thin sheet of
aluminum and the monitor on the right
will be monitoring the temperatures in
the thick sheet of aluminum the
temperature reading on the top is the is
this this temperature right here is
measuring the thin the temperature in
the thin sheet of aluminum 2 inches from
the heat source so we would expect this
temperature to rise more rapidly than
the then the probe that's 4 inches away
and that would be the same for the thick
or the thin sheet of aluminum so for our
heat source we're going to use 2 candles
okay so I like that right now
very scientific isn't it yes it is okay
so we have two candles in there trust me
on this
well this is about as scientific as I
can get I don't know if you want to do
this on your own you can verify some of
these results anyway so as you can see
the temperature on the left is starting
to rise and so is the one on the right
these are the temperatures that are only
two inches away now it's already up to
80 81 82 83 degrees so the temperatures
for both the thick sheet of aluminum and
the thin sheet of aluminum are just
about the same actually you can see 87
degrees 87 degrees now you can notice
the the temperature at four inches it's
it's actually a little higher for the
thicker sheet of aluminum 84 degrees as
opposed to 79 degrees but the
temperature differences is really are
really quite similar well you might say
that the thicker feet of aluminum
conducts heat a little bit better but
but not much anyway so these are one of
the things that you will need to decide
when you purchase your aluminum to make
your solar collector one thing to
remember is the thicker sheet of
aluminum will cost you about twice as
much and you'll notice right now that
the temperature the one on the right
this is a hundred and seventeen degrees
and the thicker aluminum is 114 degrees
so actually it's a little hotter at two
inches you know it's up to 121 and the
thicker feed is 117 anyway they're
pretty much neck in there but you can
see the the differences not much anyway
when it comes to bending the aluminum
that's when you're going to have your
your problem if you decide to make your
absorber plate yourself
the thick sheet of aluminum will be more
difficult to bend taking forward on this
okay anyway that's our experiment for
heat transfer using two thicknesses of
aluminum